So now that I've shown you
how to use the ManagedBlocker
interface directly,
let's go ahead
and talk about how to
encapsulate it inside
of a really convenient
wrapper class
in order to make it much easier
to use the ManagedBlocker
mechanism, which is otherwise a
little bit crufty to work with.
This is much more convenient.
So we're going to show
how to encapsulate
the use of ManagedBlocker within
so-called blocking task class.
The blocking task class
integrates blocking suppliers,
where supplier is a
functional interface defined
in Java from Java 8 onwards.
And it integrates it with
a common ForkJoinPool.
And here's basically
what it looks like.
You can see an example
of this, actually,
many places in my source code.
But EX 20 and the EX 20
folder in my GitHub repository
have a particularly clean
example of how to do this.
There's a static method
called call in ManagedBlocker.
And this call in
ManagedBlocker mechanism
will enable the use of
the blocking suppliers
in conjunction with the common
Java fork-join thread pool.
So when this method
gets called, it'll
do all the magic to
wrap things up and make
it much easier to program.
There's a nice Stack
Overflow article
that talks about the pros
and cons of this approach.
The call in
ManagedBlocker method
is past a supplier,
which, again,
is this functional interface
defined in Java 8 and beyond.
And we're going to
go ahead and wrap up
that supplier in a
little helper object
called ManagedBlocker of
type supplier ManagedBlocker.
And I'll show you what that
looks like in just a second.
So we make a new
supplier ManagedBlocker
object that essentially
encapsulates the supplier.
And then we go ahead and
call the ManagedBlock method
on the ForkJoinPool, passing
in the ManagedBlocker.
And the ManagedBlocker
here is that object
that's the supplier
ManagedBlocker instance.
And that will then turn around
and submit the ManagedBlocker
to the common
fork-join thread pool.
Now, at this point,
that could block.
We don't know what it will do
because we've got a supplier.
And that could do
whatever the supplier
has been programmed to do.
But we know that
when ManagedBlocker
returns, normally that it's
finished its operation.
And what we do
then is we go ahead
and we say, hey, ManagedBlocker,
please give me your result.
And that result will then be
passed back to the caller.
So that returns the result
of the blocking call
after it finishes.
So here's what the
supplier ManagedBlocker
class looks like.
As you can see, it
implements the ForkJoinPool's
ManagedBlocker interface.
And that's why we
needed this class.
It's a private,
static, nested class.
And it basically allows
the blocking supplier
to work with the
common ForkJoinPool.
It has a field
called m supplier,
which is just used to stash away
the supplier that it's passed.
It's got a flag that keeps
track of whether we're done.
And it also has a
field that keeps
track of the result, which can
be obtained later after we're
done potentially blocking.
Here's the block method.
So you can see what
the block method does
is it says m supplier dot get.
Remember, a supplier
has a get method.
It's a functional interface
that only has one method.
And that method is called get.
And that method is
whatever you passed
it to be when you called the
method on the blocking task.
And that will then go ahead
and do what it needs to do.
And let's assume
for sake of argument
it's going to block
because otherwise you
wouldn't be calling it in the
context of the ManagedBlocker
mechanism.
And when it's done, it returns
a result, sets the flag to true,
and goes ahead and returns true.
So this basically
indicates that we're done.
Is Releasable will
return whether or not
we've already finished.
Note that there is no
non-blocking behavior
for a blocking task.
We don't have a way of doing
non-blocking this here.
So really, the main method that
matters is the block method.
And then once everything
is done and we've
returned from the
ManagedBlock call,
then the get Result
method can be
invoked to obtain the result.
So just to show you
how we can use this,
let's take a look at a snippet
of code from the EX 20 example.
And this example uses
the blocking task
to ensure that there are enough
threads in the common thread
pool to download images.
So here's the
method that's going
to basically take a URL to
an image on a remote server
and then download it and
turn it into an image object.
That's its goal.
Not surprisingly,
that could block
because it's going to be
going across the network.
And you can see how this works.
We call BlockingTask dot
call in ManagedBlocker.
And we pass in a lambda
supplier, or supplier lambda.
And in this particular
case, that's going to say,
basically, download
the image at the URL.
And that is the supplier that
gets called or actually gets
passed to the call in
ManagedBlocker method,
which is then going to be used
to initiate that supplier get
method in the context
of the ManagedBlocker
mechanism of the ForkJoinPool.
So this is just the
nice little wrapper
that makes everything
so much easier to use.
And it allows us to use
convenient lambda expressions
or method references
to get the job done.
As I mentioned before,
any extra threads
in the common ForkJoinPool
will be terminated later
if they're not used after
some period of inactivity.
One of the potential risks
with this kind of an approach
is it's possible
to saturate the CPU
cores during bursty workloads.
So if you end up having
lots and lots of requests
come in for downloading
images for example,
then you could end
up basically spawning
an unbounded number of threads.
And that itself might
become problematic.
So in practice, you
might want to have
some kind of flow control
mechanism built in,
where you would stop
doing these ManagedBlocker
calls at a certain
point and just queue up
the results in some other means,
and then run them later when
the CPU utilization will abate.